# Prostate Cancer Grade Assessment
This is a class project for BMI 260 at Stanford University. This was a team project, undertaken with Stanley Xi, Qi Wen, and Erica Olsen, also at Stanford.

## Introduction
We aimed to develop a sumbission for the Karolinska Institute's corresponding [Kaggle challenge](https://www.kaggle.com/c/prostate-cancer-grade-assessment/overview). The goal was to develop a machine learning model that detects prostate cancer on pathological images of prostate tissue samples. We hope to accurately assess the severity of the cancer across a large data set using the Gleason Grading system. The Gleason Grading system assesses abnormalities within prostate cancer cells to characterize the severity of the cancer. Individual cells can receive a rating of grade 1 that signifies the cancer cells look very similar to healthy prostate cells, or they can receive a score up to a grade of 5 which signifies an aggressive and fast-growing cancer. Then, the Gleason score is determined by adding the two most common grades (a min value of 2 or max value of 10). Most cancers have a Gleason score in the 5 to 7 range. 

## Data
We used a dataset generated by the University of Liverpool that contains 11000 stained images of slides. The data for each slide contains the image, along with metadata regarding the ISUP score and the Gleason score (which are the predictive targets). Each image has an accompanying label, but the dataset providers do note that the labels are imperfect. The labels provided in our dataset are for the ISUP grades of each biopsy. We can calculate the ISUP grade of the biopsy from the Gleason Grading system, and compare how our extended algorithm holds up. If we can access another set of prostate tissue images with associated Gleason scores, we can test our extended algorithm again. Thus, we will use some sort of distance/error measurement to calculate the accuracy of our model. The data can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/c/prostate-cancer-grade-assessment/data).
